We start at the beginning of the UKF processing chain which means,
we are in the prediction step and we want to generate Sigma points.
At the beginning of the prediction step,
we have the posterior state x k k,
and the posterior covariance matrix P k k from the last iteration.
They represent the distribution of our current state,
and for this distribution,
we now want to generate Sigma points.
The number of Sigma points depends on the state dimension.
Remember, this is the state vector of the CTR V model.
So, the dimension of our state is an x equals five.
We will choose two times an x plus one Sigma points.
The first point is the mean of the state, and then,
we have another two points per
state dimension which will be spread in different directions.
In our case, this would be 11 Sigma points.
To make things easier right now,
we will consider only two dimensions of our state vector,
the position Px and the position Py.
This makes it easier to visualize what's happening.
Now, that our state dimension is two,
we are only looking for five Sigma points.
Together with you, I want to calculate
these five Sigma points and store them in this matrix,
which I write as calligraphic X.
Every column of this matrix represents one Sigma point.
Let's bring this example to life and put
some realistic values into the mean state and the covariance matrix,
just as you will have it later in the real application.
Now, if you Google for
uncentered Kalman filter and look for a rule how to generate Sigma points,
this is what you will find.
This looks awful.
Maybe this is why people don't use the uncentered Kalman filter more often.
The good news is this rule is actually pretty simple to apply.
The first thing you need to know is what this Lambda is.
This is a design parameter.
You can choose where in relation to the error ellipse,
you want to put your Sigma points.
I will show you later how this effect works.
Some people report good results with Lambda equals 2 3 minus nx.
Another thing you might be wondering is what is the square root of a matrix?
More specifically, we are looking for the matrix A which fulfills
A transposed times A equals P.
There are several algorithms available that will calculate such a matrix.
Later, I will show you how to do this in C plus plus.
But here, I'll give you the solution for the square root matrix,
so we can continue,
and this is actually all we need to calculate the Sigma points.
So, how do we read this rule?
The first column of the matrix tells us what the first Sigma point is.
This is always easy because the first Sigma point is simply the mean state estimate.
This term contains two more Sigma points.
In this square root matrix,
we have two vectors.
The first vector points into
this direction and the other vector points into this direction,
and we multiply these vectors by this printing factor.
Now, you can see what the design parameter Lambda does.
If Lambda is larger,
the Sigma points move further away from the mean state.
If Lambda is smaller,
the Sigma points move closer to the mean state.
This all happens in relation to this error ellipse.
In our case, the resulting Sigma points will end up here.
In our example, the overall spreading factor works out to square root of three.
So, we multiply this vector and this vector by the square root of three,
and add it to the mean state.
Finally, here we use the same vectors again.
But we apply them in the opposite direction.
This means that these Sigma points will show up here, and here.
In the next quiz, I would like you to
calculate the two remaining Sigma points from our example.